
**[Introduction]**

When I was a child, I had my whole life planned. I was going to attend college, study computer science, become a computer scientist, get my Ph.D., work, retire as a professor, and die. Oh, how naive I was. I never thought of the specifics. How do I utilize degrees that I've gotten? What do I teach? To what am I passionate? As a highschool senior, these questions started occupying more of my consciousness. Right before I had started college, I found the field of Machine Learning. While I had always known of the field, I never believed I could do it. Teaching a machine seemed like magic. However, I had always wanted to learn about the brain as a little kid, due to how extremely sensitive and introspective I was, I always pondered why I thought things, how I imagines things, and how does my brain generates the signals that move my fingers in just the precise motion that it feels intuitive. Machine Learning combined my two favorite things, brains and programming so I set off to develop my skills in this new and exciting endeavour. Very quickly I learned that Deep Learning and Machine Learning are just statistical models abstracted away and the word "learning" is just a computer scientest equivalent of smoke and mirrors. Even though I had learned this fact, I still became engrossed in the subject and did whatever I could to learn and further enhance my understanding of not just ML (Machine Learning) but of the mechanisms and the inutitions that lead to new developments and technologies. Now, that I have developed those computational skills, I seek to go further and closer to answering those queries my brain had once pondered. With a degree in Computational Neuroscience, I want to be able to not only enhance our understanding of the brain and the mechanisms that govern its function but also brigde the neurological and mechanical gaps between Neuroscience and AI. With this knowledge, I could expand into so many things such as developing more neurologically acurate mechanisms for learning, devloping better systems for diagnosing and understanding mental health conditions, or even just further researching the brain and developing better tools for doctors to diagnose a plethora of nervous system related afflictions.

**[Body]**

(Relevant experience and accomplishments)
	
One of the primary reasons for my attending Colorado School of Mines was because I knew that research opportunities were ready to be taken. So my freshman year, I joined the MirrorLab studying human-robot interaction. This field allowed me to integrate my newfound passion for ML and my interests in human psychology and communication. I was able to create and perform an IRB-supervised experiment where I studied the use of gestures in non-verbal communication between humans and was on the way to develop an algorithm and experiment to test our ability to recreate what we had observed to enable robots to have those same gesture communication skills. I also had the pleasure of presenting a paper, though only virtually due to COVID-19, to a group of peers also interested in this non-verbal communication reserach.

In my undergraduate program, there is a class dedicated to a capstone project, where an industry professional proposes a problem they have and tasks students with solving it in a brief period. When looking at the projects in which I could participate, I found one that instantly caught my eye—an NLP project intended to disambiguate medical documentation for the average patient. The experience was pivotal to the development of my interests into expanding to knew fields through AI. From this work, I got recommended to a budding new company RAIsonance Inc, where I am currently employed. I work more intimately with patient data, analyzing their coughs for abnormalities and developing new technologies focused on diagnosing patients with COVID-19 or other lung-related inflictions. I've had the pleasure of working personally with a medical doctor and participating in the development of a clinical trial, assisting in the documentation of a EUA trial, and writing documentation for patents that are currently pending. 

(Professional Goals)

A degree in Computational Neuroscience is my next frontier. With a Ph.D. in Comp. Neuro. and an understanding in Machine Learning, I could develop new innovations in both fields and have the more empowered abilities to developing research exeperiments and integrating the new technologies to benefit the growth of both fields. Then when I am done working in the private sector, I retire and teach the next generations of Neuroscientists.

(Why are you interested? What to you bring?)
{ADD SPECIFIC SCHOOL INFORMATION}
As a person with a ML background, I have a strong foundation in computational methods and have a plethora of techniques that will aid me in the understanding of complex datasets. My experience with developing ML pipelines in a professional setting gives me skills for enhancing the reproducibility and systematic testing procedures related to computational research.  My experience with the FDA and patent writing also helped me develop the skills for more rigorous technical writing in both a medical and industry setting. Lastly, I have experience with creating human studies as well as developing, training, and testing methods for quantifying and analyzing time-series signal information.

**[Conclusion - Brief Summary]**

Through learning AI, I have reignited a burning passion for understanding the brain and its functions. While I do not have a formal background in Neuroscience or Biology, I am incredibly well-prepared in ML and general computation. I am ready to join a rigorous program and help make an impact wherever possible.