Neurological and developmental disorders that manifest themselves in childhood have illuminated the importance and complexity of genetics in human brain function.

Early evidence that genes affect specific cognitive and behavioral circuitry emerged from studies of a rare genetic condition known as <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">Williams syndrome</mark>. Individuals exhibit:
	* Normal language as well as extreme sociability
	* lack the reticence children typically have in the presence of strangers
	* Profoundly impaired in spatial processing
	* show overall intellectual disability
	* high rates of anxiety (rarely social anxiety disorder)

The patterns of impairments in Williams syndrome, compared to autism spectrum disorders, suggest that <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">language and social skills can be separated from some other brain functions</mark>.

Williams Syndrome is caused by a heterozygous deletion of the chromosome region 7q11.23, most often encompassing about 1.5 Mb and 27 genes. <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">The level of expression of the genes within the interval is reduced because there is only one copy instead of two of each gene in the region.</mark> 

Within the past decade, advances in genomic technology have allowed for high-throughput methods to screen the genome for variations in chromosomal structure, and at much higher resolution than was allowed by the light microscope.

<mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Seminal studies in 2007 and 2008 demonstrated that individuals with autism spectrum disorder carry new (de novo) copy number variations much more often than unaffected individuals</mark>. These findings led to some for the first discoveries of specific genomic intervals contributing to common forms of the syndrome.

In 2011, two simultaneous large-scale studies of de novo copy number variations in a very well-characterized cohort found that precisely the same region deleted in Williams syndrome conferred substantial risk for autism spectrum disorder in an individual.

However, in these cases, it was <mark style="background: #ADCCFFA6;">rare duplications</mark>, that dramatically <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">increased the risk for social disability</mark>.

These findings, that losses and gains in the identical set of genes may lead to contrasting social phenotypes (while both typically lead to intellectual disability), further support the notion that <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">domains of cognitive and behavioral functioning are separable but may share important molecular mechanisms</mark>.

Fragile X syndrome is another neurodevelopmental disorder of childhood that provides insight into the genetics of cognitive function. This syndrome is mapped to a single gene on the X chromosome.
	* may have intellectual disability
	* poor social cognition
	* high social anxiety
	* repetitive behavior
	* also associated with a broader range of traits, including elongated face and protruding ears

Fragile X syndrome has been shown to result from mutations that reduce expression of a gene called _fragile X mental retardation protein_ (FMRP).
FMRP protein regulates the translation of mRNAs into proteins in neurons, in a process that is itself regulated by neuronal activity. (Because this is mutated on the X chromosome, males lose all copies if one is mutated)

Regulated translation in neurons is an important component of the synaptic plasticity required for learning. The fragile X defect at the level of translation thus affects a plethora of neuronal brain functions.