Schizophrenia affects about 1% of all young adults, causing a pattern of thought disorders and emotional withdrawal that profoundly impairs life. It is also strongly heritable and has a strong environmental component that is associated with stress on a developing fetus.

As with ASD, Genes/Environment play a big role in schizophrenia. Along with ASD CNVs, they began to also associate these variations with schizophrenia. (Find that the loci implicated in the higher probability for ASD are related to schizophrenia)

<mark style="background: #ABF7F7A6;">In the region related to both ASD and schizophrenia, deletions are more likely to lead to ASD where duplications are more likely to lead to schizophrenia.</mark>

With regard to schizophrenia, the most important development of the last decade and a half has been the emergence of <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">common variant genome-wide association studies</mark> (GWASs). Genome-wide association relies on assaying polymorphisms at every gene in the genome simultaneously. This hypothesis-free approach, when used with well-powered cohorts and appropriate correction for multiple comparisons, has proven to be a <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">highly reliable and reproducible strategy for identifying common risk alleles in common disorders across all of medicine</mark>.

GWASs involving nearly 40,000 cases and 113,000 controls have resulted in the identification of 108 risk loci for schizophrenia. The genes implicated in schizophrenia risk provide a starting point for determining the biology underlying the disorder.

Recent exome studies have pointed to the importance of the molecules within the activity-regulated cytoskeleton (ARC) complex, as well as teh gene _set domain containing 1A_ (SETDIA), as relevant for schizophrenia pathogenesis.