1) Rare genetic syndromes such as fragile X syndrome, Rett syndrome, and Williams syndrome have provided important insights into the molecular mechanisms of complex human behaviors. Moreover, while considerable work remains to be done, the study of these syndromes has already challenged the notion that associated cognitive and behavioral deficits are immutable and has demonstrated the utility of a wide range of model systems in illuminating conserved biological mechanisms.
2) The sequencing of the human genome, the development of high-throughput genomic assays, and simultaneous computing and methodological advances have led to a profound change in the understanding of the genetics of human behavior and psychiatric illness. Several paradigmatic disorders, including schizophrenia and autism, have seen dramatic progress, leading to the identification of dozens of definitive risk genes and chromosomal regions.
3) The maturation of the field of psychiatric genetics and genomics over the past decade has revealed the frailty of testing pre-specified candidate genes. These types of studies have now been supplanted by genome-wide scans of both common and rare alleles. Coupled with rigorous statistical frameworks and consensus statistical thresholds, these are yielding highly reliable and reproducible results.
4) At present, the cumulative evidence suggests that the full range of genetic variations underlies complex behavioral syndromes, including common and rare, transmitted and de novo, germline and somatic, and sequence and chromosomal structural variation. However, the relative contributions of these various types of genetic changes vary for a given disorder.
5) A striking finding from recent advances in the genetics of human behavior has been the overlap of genetic risks for syndromes with distinct symptoms and natural histories. Understanding how and why an identical mutation may lead to highly diverse phenotypic outcomes in different individuals will be a major challenge for the future.
6) Findings across common psychiatric disorders point to extremely high rates of genetic heterogeneity. This coupled with the biological pleiotropy of the risk genes that have been identified to date, as well as the dynamism and complexity of human brain development, all point to important challenges ahead in moving from an understanding of risk genes to an understanding of behavior. Similarly, at present, an important distinction can be made between illuminating the biology of risk genes and unraveling the pathophysiology of behavioral syndromes.