Tags: #Neuroscience #ND #ND_Chapter2

Neo means “new”, and cortex means something like “husk” or “outer shell”

Although the neocortex looks like a 3-dimensional blob with some grooves in it, it’s more like a large sheet of tissue that’s been wadded up to fit into the skull. The actual area, if you were to smooth it out, is about 1.5 square feet, roughly equivalent to one and a half standard floor tiles. Obviously a surface with this large an area wouldn’t fit inside your skull without some folding.

A large neocortex distinguishes mammals from other animals. The human neocortex is so large that it completely covers the rest of the brain except for a bit of the cerebellum that sticks out from the back. The neocortex enables the most complex mental activity that we associate with being human.


**The relationship between the neocortex and the rest of the brain is twofold:**

1. **The neocortex acts like a set of complex subroutines in a computer program that allow more complex, nuanced, and specialized computations for processing sensory input and responding to it.** The neocortex allowed a new level of advanced behavior - particularly social behavior - culminating in humans with tool making and, ultimately, language and high-level consciousness.
2. **Somewhat paradoxically, the frontal lobe of the neocortex acts as the controller of controllers.** This is mediated by the complex multilayered working memory function of the prefrontal cortical areas that allow us to pursue complex multistep plans.


The following sections introduce and explain key parts of the neocortex (the four lobes)