Tags: #Neuroscience #ND #ND_Chapter2

This next section covers the midbrain, the pons and medulla, and the cerebellum. This covers the transition between the brain and spinal cord. {The midbrain, pons, and medulla} ⇒ The Brainstem.

These systems are very old and are found in all vertebrates. They control basic behaviors such as <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">locomotion coordination, eye movements, and regulation of body homeostasis such as respiration, heart rate, and temperature.</mark>

## The Midbrain
The most superficial of these areas is called the ***midbrain.** The midbrain contains low-level processors that control eye movements and help localize sound.

🧠 The _**superior colliculus**_, controls eye movements called **saccades.** The superior colliculus receives projections from about one-tenth of all retinal ganglion cell in humans and a much higher percentage in other mammals. (In other animals this acts as the primary visual target of the retina, but humans use it primarily to control eye movement and leaves other visually guided behavior to the thalamic neocortical system, primarily in the parietal lobe.)

The midbrain also includes one of the basal ganglia, the **substantia nigra.** Other nuclei in the midbrain, such as the locus coeruleus, Raphe, and ventral tegmental areas, make extensive but diffuse modulatory projections throughout the neocortex.

😼 This means that they make only a few out of the thousands of synapses on specific target cells, thereby contributing small, modulatory excitation or inhibition to large numbers of neurons in many brain areas rather than being the major cause of the firing in those targets neurons.

## The Reticular Formation

An important brain area that courses throughout much of the sub cortex including the midbrain is the reticular formation.

The word reticular is derives from the Latin word for “net”. The reticular formation is not as much a defined structure as it is a continuous network that extends through and interacts with numerous brain areas.

It extends through the midbrain and pons and medulla and is continuous with reticular “zones” above the midbrain and below the medulla into the spinal cord.

The reticular formation controls all life functions, such as heart rate, respiration, temperature, and even wakefulness. Damage to the reticular formation typically results in coma or death.

## Processing the Basics: The Pons and Medulla

The **pons,** below the midbrain, contains nuclei that mediate several auditory and balance functions. Auditory functions include neural comparisons of the loudness and timing between the two ears for auditory localization (in cooperation with the inferior colliculus in the mid brain).

Some pons nuclei receive inputs from the vestibular system in the inner ear (the semicircular canals) and communicate with the cerebellum for balance. (Damage to these systems can cause dizziness and inability to stand up)

The pons receives sensory input from the face and sends motor neurons to facial muscles to control both voluntary and involuntary facial expressions.

Below the pons is the **_medulla._** Below the medulla is the spinal cord. Much of the medulla consists of neural fiber tracts (called **pyramids**, because of their shape in cross section) that contain sensory information from the skin, muscles, and tendons that is being sent to the brain, and motor command information from the primary motor cortex in the frontal lobe going down into the spinal cord to control the body’s muscles.

Two areas in the medulla, called the **_gracile_** and _**cuneate nuclei**_, integrate the ascending and descending information. Like the pons, some sensory inputs from the mouth (including neurons from the tongue containing taste information), face, and throat also synapse in the medulla.