1) The neural sciences seek to understand the brain at multiples levels of organization, ranging from the cell and its constituents to the operations of the mind.
2) The fundamental principles of neural science bridge levels of time, complexity, and state - from cell to action and ideation, from development through learning to expertise and forgetting, from normal function to neurological deficits and recover. As a first step, one must understand the building blocks - the electrical properties of the nerve cell and its connections to other nerve cells - and the organization of the nervous system from supporting cells to pathways.
3) The neuron doctrine states that individual nerve cells (neurons) are the elementary building blocks and signaling elements of the nervous system.
4) Neurons are organized into circuits with specialized functions. The simplest circuits mediate reflexes; more complex cognitive functions require more sophisticated circuits. This organizational principle extends the neuron doctrine to cellular connectionism.
5) Even within complex circuits, critical nodes can be identified as areas associated with a specific function. The first clear evidence for localization of brain function came from the study of a specific impairment of language production.
6) The two cerebral hemispheres receive information from the opposite side of the body and control the actions of the opposite side.
7) While the principle of localization of function in the brain is superior to its main historical alternatives - aggregate-field and the theory of mass action - it is constantly being refined. No area of the cerebral cortex functions independently of other cortical and subcortical structures.
8) A major refinement of localization in the principle of modular functional organization. The brain contains many representations of information organized by both the relevance of certain features for particular computations and by the variety of uses to which such information may be put. This is a form of redundancy with respect to purpose or PA.
9) The future of brain science will require integration of ideas that cross the boundaries of traditional disciplines. We must open our minds to a wide variety of sources to guide our intuitions and strategies for research, from the sublime - the nature of consciousness - to the seemingly mundane - what general anesthesia does to a calcium sensor in the ring of cells around the thalamus.