Tags: #Neuroscience #ND #ND_Chapter1

Nervous systems enable movement!

>[!note] Sidenote
>[[Eat Your Brain Out, You (Sea) Squirt!]]

### Sensing the world around you

Sensory neurons detect energy and substances from inside and outside our bodies. Energy detectors include:

* <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Photoreceptors</mark> in the eye that detect light
* <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Auditory hair cells</mark> in the cochlea that detect sound
* <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">Mechanoreceptors</mark> in the skin that detect pressure and vibration

Sensory cells that detect molecules include <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">olfactory neurons</mark> in the nose and taste buds in the tongue.

We also have detectors inside our bodies that detect body temp, CO2 levels, blood pressure, and other indications of body function. The central and autonomic nervous systems use the outputs of these internal sensors to regulate body function and keep it in homeostasis.

<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Sensory neurons are the most specialized of all neurons because htye have unique mechanisms for responding to a particular type of energy or detecting a particular substance.</mark>

### Moving with motor neurons

Most neurons are computation interneurons that receive inputs from other neurons and have outputs to other neurons. However, some neurons, like those listed in the preceding section, are different:

* **Some Neurons are specialized for sensation.** The input for these neurons comes from  world, not other neurons.
* **Some neurons send their output to muscles, glands, or organs instead of other neurons.** In this way, they spur action, which can be anything from secreting a particular hormone to regulate a bodily process to darting out the front door and across the lawn when you hear the ice-cream truck.

Our bodies execute two very different types of movement.
*  *Voluntary movement*: which is what most people normally think of as movement. Controlled by CNS whos motor neurons innervate *striated muscles* (these same muscles and neurons are involved in reflex, too)
* *Smooth muscles*: Controlled by neurons in the autonomic nervous systems, such as in the digestive system or those that control the pupil of the eye.

### Deciding and doing

CNSs are complex in mammals because large areas of the neocortex conduct motor control, sensory processing, and, for lack of a better term what goes on in between.

Large amounts of brain not devoted directly to controlling movement or processing sensory input have traditionally been called <mark style="background: #FFF3A3A6;">association cortex</mark>. A large neocortex allows a lot of deciding to go on about what it is you will be doing.

<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">The most anterior (meaning, toward the front) part of the frontal lobe is called the <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">prefrontal cortex</mark>. This area is highly expanded in primates and particularly in humans. The prefrontal cortex is responsible for the most abstract level of goal planning.</mark>

If you don't have large frontal lobes, your behavior tends to be dominated by your current needs and what is currently going on in the world around you. If you're a lizard, you're hungry or cold or hot or seeking a mate or in danger of being caught by a predator. Mammals, with their frontal lobes, have the capacity to plan complex, multistep action sequences. Mammals can interact in large social groups in which their relationship to every other member is individualized, not just based on who's bigger or smaller or receptive to sexual advances at the moment.

### Processing thoughts: Using Intelligence and Memory

Two attributes are attributed to intelligence
* Language
* Episodic memory

**Language**

One  attribute associated with human intelligence is language, which, when defined as the use of sign sequences within a complex grammar, appears to be uniquely human. What's interesting about language - a least from a neuroscientist's perspective - is that it resides primarily on only one side of the brain (the left side in the most right-handers).

What makes it mind-boggling is that the two sides of a human brain appear nearlly identical in both large - and small-scale organization. In other words, there appears to be no physical difference between the two halves.

**Episodic Memory**

*Episodic Memory* is the memory of a particular event and its context in time. It can be contrasted with *semantic memory*, a kind of associative memory involving the general knowledge of facts or association. Its the difference between knowing when you learned the capital of Alabama was Montgomery (episodic) versus knowing the fact that the capital of Alabama is Montgomery (semantic).

### When things go Wrong: Neurological and Mental Illness

What can go wrong with the brain can occur at multiple levels. The following is just a sampling of mental and neurological illnesses that can occur:
* **Developmental errors in gross structure**
* **Developmental errors in specific local circuits**
* **Dysfuncitonal Neural Pathways**
* **Environmentally caused organic dysfunctions**
* **Environmentally caused psychological dysfunctions**

