Action potentials convey information through their timing! Although action potentials can vary somewhat in <mark style='background:#eb3b5a'>duration</mark>, <mark style='background:#eb3b5a'>amplitude</mark>, and <mark style='background:#eb3b5a'>shape</mark>, they are typically treated as identical stereotyped events in neural encoding studies.

An AP sequence can be characterized simply by a list of the times when spikes occurred. For _n_ spikes, we denote these types by $t_i$ with $i=1,2,...,n$. The trial during which the spikes are recorded is taken to start at time 0 and end at time $T$, so $0 ≤ t_i ≤ T$ for all $i$. The spike sequence can also be represented as a sum of infinitesimally narrow, idealized spikes in the form of Dirac $\delta$ functions. $$\rho(t)=\sum^{n}_{i=1}\delta(t-t_i)$$
We call $\rho(t)$ the neural response function and use it to re-express sums over spikes as integrals over time. For example, for any well behaved function $h(t)$, we can write $$\sum^{n}_{i=1}h(t-t_i)=\int^{\infty}_{-\infty}h(\tau)\rho(t-\tau)d\tau$$
where the integral is over the duration of the trial. The equality follows from the basic defining equation for a $\delta$ function, $$\int\delta(t-\tau)h(t)d\tau = h(t)$$
provided that the limits of the integral surround the point $t$ (if they do not, the integral is 0)

Due to variability in APs they are typically treated statistically or probabilistically. For example, they may be characterized by firing rates, rather than as specific spike sequences. <mark style='background:#f7b731'>The term "firing rate" is applied conventionally to a number of different quantities</mark>. The simplest of these is called <mark style='background:#eb3b5a'>spike-count rate</mark>, which is obtained by counting the number of APs that appear during a trial and dividing by the duration of the trial. We denote the <mark style='background:#eb3b5a'>spike-count by r</mark>, where $$r = \frac{n}{T} = \frac{1}{T}\int^{T}_{0}\rho(\tau)d\tau$$
The second equality follows from the fact that $\int\rho(\tau)d\tau = n$ and indicates that the spike count rate is the <mark style='background:#3867d6'>time average of the neural response function over the duration of the trial</mark>.