Autism spectrum disorders are a collection of developmental syndromes of varying severity affecting about 2-3% of the populations and characterized by impairment in reciprocal social communication as well as stereotyped interests and repetitive behaviors.

The clinical symptoms of autism spectrum disorders, by definition, emerge in the first 3 years of life, although highly reliable differences between affected and unaffected children are very often identifiable within the first months of life.

There is a considerable amount of variation in phenotype leading to quite broad diagnostic classifications of autism spectrum disorders. Individuals have <mark style="background: #FFB8EBA6;">higher frequency of seizure and cognitive problems</mark> than the general public and often have serious impairments in adaptive functioning.

<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Autism has a very strong heritable component</mark>, which is likely to account for its being among the first genetically complex neuropsychiatric syndromes to yield to modern gene discovery tools and methods.

Autism provides insights into behaviors that are associated with being human:
* Language
* Complex intelligence
* Interpersonal interactions

While syndromic forms of ASD account for a small fraction of all cases, the first findings in more common so-called "idiopathic" or "nonsyndromic" forms of the disorder also demonstrated a role for rare mutations carrying large biological effects.

De novo submicroscopic deletions and duplications in chromosomal structure may dramatically increase an individual's risk for ASD. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">These CNVs (copy number variations) cluster in specific regions of the genome, identifying specific risk intervals.</mark> 

Although these CNVs carry large risks for ASD, studies of other psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, have found that many of the **same regions increase the risk for these conditions as well**.

Moreover, studies of <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">individuals ascertained by genotype</mark> have found a wide variety of associated behavioral phenotypes, <mark style="background: #D2B3FFA6;">ranging from specific language impairment to intellectual disability to schizophrenia</mark>.

Large-scale studies of de novo mutations in ASD have now identified more than 100 associated genes, with about 45 of these reaching the highest confidence level of statistical significance. Data shows that the genes that are associated with ASD tend to be <mark style="background: #FF5582A6;">involved in synaptic formation and function, and in regulation of transcription</mark>.