Tags: #Neuroscience #ND #ND_Chapter2

So we are going to ask a question, how much variation is there between people, and is this variation important?

## Mine’s bigger than yours!

An average size brain is about 1,300 cc. Among adults, a 10 percent variation around that norm is common, which means the brains of many people are up to 10 percent larger or smaller than the standard 1,300 cc.

Brain size tends to scale with body size, and thus large men tend to have larger brains than small women. How important is this variation? Not very!

## It’s what’s inside that counts: Looking at differences in structural organization

What about the structural organization of the brain? If you look carefully at any brain, you can see that the two hemisphere are rarely exact mirror images.

This amount of variation between hemispheres is common between brains as well. This is one of the reasons why epilepsy surgeons functionally map brain areas around the area they’re targeting: they need to make sure they’re not removing crucial areas, such as those that control language.

What is not observable at the level of the overall structure of the brain is its internal wiring.

## Considering gender-based brain differences

Although the overall structure and detailed connectivity of male and female brains are nearly identical, some recent research has revealed male versus female differences in what might be called “styles” of processing, with men preferring big picture, map-like ways of organizing knowledge and women preferring a more linear procedural system of knowledge.

### Which part of your brain do you use? Lateralization differences

One apparent (but controversial) difference that has been suggested is that the amount of specialization between the two hemispheres (lateralization) is different between male and female brains. Brain scans tend to show the women use more, and more symmetrical, brain areas than men do for the same tasks. Women also tend to have a higher percentage of connecting fibers in the corpus callosum, the fiber tract that links the two hemispheres.

<aside> 💡 The general idea is that men’s brains are more lateralized than females, meaning that functions tend to be more restricted to one hemisphere in men than in women. The correlate of this hypothesis is that men’s brains are therefore more specialized, particularly with respect to spatial processing in the right hemisphere. (Men may be able to process spatial, right-hemisphere tasks in some sense more deeply because of lateral specialization. The downside is that they tend to be more disabled by strokes or lesions that affect only one side of the brain because there is less redundancy in the representation for that ability in the mirror image location in the other hemisphere)

</aside>

<aside> 🧠 It has also been suggested that not only is autism much more common in males than females, but that autism itself can be regarded as a kind of “ultra-male” brain configuration with savant skills in certain kinds of complex processing accompanied by poor language and social development.

</aside>

The lateralization theory explains women’s general superiority in language skills compared to men in this way: less specialization allows both hemispheres in females’ brains to process language.

The issue is far from resolved. Some propose that the observed male/female differences in brain activation and skills are entirely culturally based and have nothing to do with any intrinsic differences in brain structure of organization. Others - usually those who argue more for biologically based differences - suggest that male versus female brains are differentially **susceptible** during development to lateralization of language versus spatial skills.

### How Brain Development Plays into the Debate

One thing making it even more difficult to evaluate any of these hypotheses is that experience clearly changes brain development. Therefore, gender-differentiating cultural experience may modify development to produce true male/female biological differences in adult brains.

What mechanisms could produce gender-based lateralization differences during development? There appear to be developmental and operational effects on the brain from the hormones testosterone, estrogen, and oxytocin. Artificial testosterone injections tend to produce male-like behavior and proclivities in females, whereas estrogen does the opposite in males. Oxytocin, a hormone released during the birth process in females, has been suggested to mediate a kind of “mother bear” behavior, with high nurturing towards those within the clan but high aggression against those outside.