# Summary
Neural activity is often described in terms of population-level factors extracted from the responses of many neurons. Factors provide a lower-dimensional description with the aim of shedding light on network computations. Yet, mechanistically, computations are performed not by continuously valued factors but by interactions among neurons that spike discretely and variably. Models provide a means of bridging these levels of description. We developed a general method for training model networks of spiking neurons by leveraging factors extracted from either data or firing-rate-based networks. In addition to providing a useful model-building framework, this formalism illustrates how reliable and continuously valued factors can arise from seemingly stochastic spiking. Our framework establishes procedures for embedding this property in network models with different levels of realism. The relationship between spikes and factors in such networks provides a foundation for interpreting (and subtly redefining) commonly used quantities such as firing rates.

# Introduction
* Individual neurons and their spikes are the fundamental units from which a mechanistic understanding of neural computation must be built.
* There is a layer of abstraction that forms when performing analysis that focuses on firing rate that governs the propensity to spike rather than the individual spikes themselves.
* Treating firing rates as reflecting population-level "latent factors"
	* Sensory systems: firing rates are hypothesized to be functions of stimulus properties, and decoding operates upon rates or factors. Decisions are hypothesized to employ latent variables reflected in firing rates.
* <mark style='background:#3867d6'>Spike-based interactions among neurons are patently mechanistic, but do flow field arrows guiding abstracted state-space trajectories constitute a "mechanism"?</mark>
	* The hope that they do is bolstered by the ability to train RNNs to perform brain-like computations and to understand their solutions in terms of reduced-dimensional projects of activity.
* If concepts such as latent-factor dynamics and firing rates are to form the foundation not just of analysis but of mechanistic understanding, it must be possible to link them concretely to individual neuron spikes. (Though neither latent factor nor even firing rate have accepted physiological definitions)
* A neuron's rate might be defined as the average spiking frequency of many self-similar neurons. Response heterogeneity suggests generalizing this definition of firing rate to weighted averages of spiking activity.
* **THE GOAL OF THIS STUDY**, is to determine whether latent-factor dynamics provide a principled way of understanding how spiking networks - specifically networks with realistic spiking variability and response heterogeneity - perform computations.
