#### A model of cholinergic suppression of hippocampal ripples through disruption of balanced excitation/inhibition
Sharp wave-ripples (140-220 Hz) are patterns of brain activity observed in the local field potential of the hippocampus which are present during memory consolidation. As rodents switch from memory consolidation to memory encoding behaviors, cholinergic inputs to the hippocampus from neurons in the medial septum-diagonal band of Broca cause a marked reduction in ripple incidence. The mechanism for this disruption in ripple power is not fully understood. In isolated neurons, the major effect of cholinergic input on hippocampal neurons is depolarization of the membrane potential, which affects both hippocampal pyramidal neurons and inhibitory interneurons. Using an existing model of ripple-frequency oscillations that includes both pyramidal neurons and interneurons, we investigated the mechanism whereby depolarizing inputs to these neurons can affect ripple power and frequency. We observed that ripple power and frequency are maintained, as long as inputs to pyramidal neurons and interneurons are balanced. Preferential drive to pyramidal neurons or interneurons, however, affects ripple power and can disrupt ripple oscillations by pushing ripple frequency higher or lower. Thus, an imbalance in drive to pyramidal neurons and interneurons provides a means whereby cholinergic input can suppress hippocampal ripples.

#### Diversity of Evoked Astrocyte Ca2+ Dynamics Quantified through Experimental Measurements and Mathematical Modeling
Astrocytes are a major cell type in the mammalian brain. They are not electrically excitable, but generate prominent Ca2+ signals related to a wide variety of critical functions. The mechanisms driving these Ca2+ events remain incompletely understood. In this study, we integrate Ca2+imaging, quantitative data analysis, and mechanistic computational modeling to study the spatial and temporal heterogeneity of cortical astrocyte Ca2+ transients evoked by focal application of ATP in mouse brain slices. Based on experimental results, we tune a single-compartment mathematical model of IP3-dependent Ca2+ responses in astrocytes and use that model to study response heterogeneity. Using information from the experimental data and the underlying bifurcation structure of our mathematical model, we categorize all astrocyte Ca2+ responses into four general types based on their temporal characteristics: Single-Peak, Multi-Peak, Plateau, and Long-Lasting responses. We find that the distribution of experimentally-recorded response types depends on the location within an astrocyte, with somatic responses dominated by Single-Peak (SP) responses and large and small processes generating more Multi-Peak responses. On the other hand, response kinetics differ more between cells and trials than with location within a given astrocyte. We use the computational model to elucidate possible sources of Ca2+ response variability: (1) temporal dynamics of IP3, and (2) relative flux rates through Ca2+ channels and pumps. Our model also predicts the effects of blocking Ca2+ channels/pumps; for example, blocking store-operated Ca2+(SOC) channels in the model eliminates Plateau and Long-Lasting responses (consistent with previous experimental observations). Finally, we propose that observed differences in response type distributions between astrocyte somas and processes can be attributed to systematic differences in IP3 rise durations and Ca2+ flux rates.