Tags: #Neuroscience #ND #ND_Chapter3 

When the postsynaptic neuron is excited, it fires off electrical pulses, called **_spikes_**, or **_action potentials_**, that travel away from its cell body and along its axon until they reach the places where the axon branch and the individual branches end in what are called **_axon terminals_** (also called _terminal boutons_). These axon terminals are next to other, postsynaptic neurons. These thousands of axon terminals are the places where your presynaptic neuron converts its electrical action potential into squirts of neurotransmitter that convey a message to other neurons. And so it goes, times 100 billion, of course. 

>[!tip] The Junction
>The junction between the _presynaptic_ neurotransmitter squirting axon and the _postsynaptic_ neurotransmitter-receiving dendrite is called a _synapse_, the most fundamental computing element in the nervous system. The gap between the pre- and postsynaptic neurons is called the _synaptic cleft_. The presynaptic spike causes a squirt of neurotransmitter to diffuse across the synaptic cleft from the presynaptic releasing site to receptors on the postsynaptic dendrite. The postsynaptic dendrite has receptors that bind the neurotransmitter, causing ion channels to open or close, producing an electrical even in the postsynaptic cell.

>[!note] Transistors and The Brain
>Many neuroscientists believe that if you are going to compare brains to digital computers, the transistor comparison should be at the level of the the synapse. Because each neuron has about 10,000 synapses, and there are around 100 billion neurons, the folks at Intel are going to going to have to burn a lot more midnight oil if they want their CPUs to catch up to the brain’s computing power.

